So now let's see how we can take messages from one script to another script.
For example, here we have scraped content of the website, text content.
Now if we want this scraped content to be analyzed,
we can give that to chat GPT API.
So we want to do this task in the background.
Because here we are calling our API,
then sending data from API, then receiving.
So this work will be done in the background only then it will be better.
And it happens that such works happen in the background.
So for this we have to transfer our scraped content to the background script.
So what will we do for that?
So now you can see that our background script
is background.ts.
If we want to transfer this scraped content to this script,
then what will we do?
We have a method to send message from here.
It is called chrome.runtime.sendMessage.
By using this, we can transfer a message from one place to another in any script.
So there goes this method.
In which what you do is,
first you put an object.
First you write chrome.runtime.sendMessage.
In that, an object goes.
In which you can put any name of an object.
For example, you can call a trimmed text as a scraped text.
And you give it the value of a scrimmed text.
So if you want to access this scrimmed text from anywhere,
then you can access it as a scraped text.
So let me tell you this well.
What happened is that this message has spread out everywhere.
Now you can receive this message from any file.
You just have to use a method.
Which is the method of chrome.runtime.sendMessage.
As soon as you use that method,
you will be able to receive it from anywhere.
So this scrimmed text which is also our content,
has gone inside the scraped text.
And as soon as you directly access the scraped text,
this scrimmed text will automatically come to you.
So first we save it.
Let's go to the background.
Let's paste it.
And our function is something like this.
So this function is something like this,
which you use to receive a message.
Now here you write the first thing, if
message.scraped
Here I have turned on my caps lock.
So let me do it in small letters first.
message.scrapedText
Now I will explain to you what this is and what I am doing.
So what I have done here is,
and once console.log
message.scrapedText
Now let's see what I have done here.
First of all,
from the popup,
we have sent our message with the scraped text in every file.
It has been sent everywhere.
Then we have received it from the background.
We have used the method of chrome.runtime.onMessage.
We have put a message parameter in it.
So whatever message will come from here,
will be saved in the message parameter.
And then we can access the message from it.
So the scraped text was saved in the message.
We have accessed it by doing message.scrapedText
and it has been accessed.
So you can access it in this way.
We have accessed it in the background.
So now whenever the text will be scraped,
it will come directly in the background
and it will be printed in the background.
It will be logged in the console.
Right now we are logging it.
What we will do tomorrow is,
we will do analysis,
we will summarize,
we will use openAI here.
So for now,
I will show you whether it is printing or not.
So for that,
first of all,
you go to chrome.
After going to chrome,
the first thing you have to do is,
you have to go to extension,
chrome slash extensions.
And you have to reload it.
Because,
whenever you do changes in background.ts,
or content.js,
or in ts,
then you have to reload the extension every time.
So what you have to do here is,
you go back to the artificial intelligence wikipedia.
And your extension,
I had un-pinned it.
I will pin it back.
We have opened the extension.
And this time we will click on hello world.
So when we used to click earlier,
you might remember,
after scraping,
alert used to show.
But now it won't.
As soon as you clicked on hello world,
the message has been transferred
to the background script.
And the background script
has printed that thing in the console.
So now you can see,
the message we have,
has come completely.
Whatever was written in the web page,
everything has come.
If you click on show more,
then the whole content of the web page,
has come to us.
So now you can see,
how easy it was to send the message.
Now here,
in the whole backend,
you can see background.ts.
Like here,
by selecting background.js,
I will click on hello world.
And when I go back,
you can see,
you get all the text.
So here you can understand,
tomorrow,
we will keep our analyzed text,
summarized text.
And in the same way,
we will send the text,
which will be analyzed,
which will be summarized,
to the message,
in the popup.
So here,
it will be analyzed.
Then the message will be sent
to the popup.
Then your result will be shown here.
So now,
you can see,
that the text,
which was analyzed,
will be sent to the popup.
So here,
the text,
will be sent to the popup.
And here,
the result will be shown.
So,
I hope,
you understood,
how to send a message.
And what is the need for it.